CA templates beta public preview (#18315)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: api-reference/beta/resources/conditionalaccesstemplate.md

---
title: "conditionalAccessTemplate resource type"

> description: "Represents a Microsoft recommended template for Azure Active Directory conditional access policy."

Reviewer: Suggestion
```suggestion
description: "Represents a Microsoft recommended template of best practice configurations for Azure Active Directory conditional access policies."
```

Author: updated the description as suggested

author: "xuchen1"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "identity-and-sign-in"
doc_type: resourcePageType
---

# conditionalAccessTemplate resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

> Represents a Microsoft recommended template for Azure Active Directory conditional access policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Represents a Microsoft recommended template of best practice configurations for Azure Active Directory [conditional access policies](../resources/conditionalaccesspolicy.md).
```

Author: updated

Inherits from [entity](../resources/entity.md).

## Methods
|Method|Return type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|[List conditionalAccessTemplates](../api/conditionalaccessroot-list-templates.md)|[conditionalAccessTemplate](../resources/conditionalaccesstemplate.md) collection|Get a list of the [conditionalAccessTemplate](../resources/conditionalaccesstemplate.md) objects and their properties.|
|[Get conditionalAccessTemplate](../api/conditionalaccesstemplate-get.md)|[conditionalAccessTemplate](../resources/conditionalaccesstemplate.md)|Read the properties and relationships of a [conditionalAccessTemplate](../resources/conditionalaccesstemplate.md) object.|

## Properties
|Property|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|

> |description|String| The human-readable name of the template. |

Reviewer: Did you mean user-friendly instead?
```suggestion
|description|String| The user-friendly name of the template. |
```

Author: updated

|details|[conditionalAccessPolicyDetail](../resources/conditionalaccesspolicydetail.md)| Complete list of policy details specific to the template. This property contains the JSON of policy settings for configuring a Conditional Access policy. |

> |id|String| Immutable id of a template, this value will be represented as GUID. Inherited from [entity](../resources/entity.md). |

Reviewer: Looks like a GUID, but not a GUID
```suggestion
|id|String| Immutable ID of a template. Inherited from [entity](../resources/entity.md). |
```

Author: updated

> |name|String| The human-readable name of the template. |
> |scenarios|templateScenarios| List of scenarios a template is recommended for. The following are valid scenarios `new`, `secureFoundation`, `zeroTrust`, `remoteWork`, `protectAdmins`, `emergingThreats`. |

Reviewer: Add the sentinel enum member as well so customer know it's evolvable enum
Indicate it's a multi-valued enum
Indicate supported query parameters
```suggestion
|name|String| The user-friendly name of the template. |
|scenarios|templateScenarios| List of conditional access scenarios that the template is recommended for. The possible values are: `new`, `secureFoundation`, `zeroTrust`, `remoteWork`, `protectAdmins`, `emergingThreats`, `unknownFutureValue`. This is a multi-valued enum. Supports `$filter` (`eq`).|
```

Author: updated the description as suggested.

One question here, in additional to `eq`, it should support all other filter type as well, such as `has`. Do I need to include others? If so can you share with me example?

Reviewer: Yeah, please do; (`eq`, `has`) will do.

I suggest that you include that as part of your Example 2 in the LIST doc. This is the first set of APIs in Azure AD that uses the "has" operator and it will be great to show that in an example. Something like `...?$select=id,scenarios,details&$filter=scenarios has 'remoteWork'`

I'll also raise a separate PR to update the [$filter guidance](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/filter-query-parameter#operators-and-functions-supported-in-filter-expressions) guidance this operator.

Author: added!
